>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just a quick recap.
We have been through a lot.
We have gone through a journey
of discovering properties and
various data structures and
the operations that we perform on them.
Then we implemented a bulk
of the data structures that
you would be expected to know
in an interview from scratch.
And then we talked about some themes
around questions related to these data
structures that you might find.
So we've been through a lot,
let's kind of recap what we've seen.
So let's talk a little bit about
this time complexity piece here.
We kind of glossed over it a little
bit in this workshop, last workshop.
Practical intro to algorithms goes
more in depth on calculating and
analyzing time complexity.
So if you're feeling a little lost
about what I'm talking about,
I recommend checking out those videos and
then coming back and hearing me out here.
So let's see, what are some special
things that I wanna point out?
So for a hash table,
we noticed that we have constant time for
pretty much everything, which means that
we're gonna use our law for optimization.
That's why I'm saying like if you can
look a hash table to make it faster,
you should do that.
A lot of our insertions and
deletions, they're ordered,
but they're not necessarily like
in a contiguous block of memory.
So when we insert and delete, we don't
have to worry about shifting things over
and that makes a constant time.
And actually in JavaScript arrays
in most browser environments
are basically the same as this.
So this linear time is kind
of probably not true for
JavaScript, depending on where
your JavaScript is running.
Let's see, what are some other
things that you should know?
Did you check out in your sorting,
that's an important thing for
these data structure questions.
A lot of them can be improved
significantly, if you just sort the input.
I would just use
the JavaScript sort method.
Be careful you need to learn how to use
that call back function where you have to
return a minus b.
So just remember how that works.
One is ascending, one is descending.
And under the hood,
it's either merge sort or quick sort.
And so, you can expect an end log in for
these kind of sorts, but
it's even better if the input
is already sorted and
then you don't even need to think about
sorting it or anything like that.
Some other things to think about
are doing things in place.
And so this is so
that you don't consume extra memory.
A lot of questions will start off with
sort of a naive solution where maybe
you'll use hash table to make
something really fast and
then your interviewer will, they'll
be like but can you do it in place?
And then you're like no and
then you have to figure out a creative
way to not use a hash table.
And so some ways you can do that are like
using pointers with link list is one way.
What's another way?
Man, there's some other ways.
I don't know.
I'm blanking at the moment, but
definitely using pointers, swapping.
So instead of creating a new data
structure, you can just swap them.
You can swap only in data
structures that have an order.
So if it's an unordered data structure,
you can't really swap.
So that's not gonna help you.
Pretty much, searching the best you can do
is gonna be 0 of n cuz you have to look
at everything, unless it's ordered,
unless it's sorted.
And then in which case you can use
something like binary search in
that can speed things up.
Trying to think of what else
I can tell you about this.
I don't know, be familiar with this.
You don't need to memorize this table,
but you should be able to
reason about the time complexity of
various operations in your code.
So before you get into
interview questions, before
you are studying data structures
when you're just writing your code
day-to-day just think
about this array.push.
How does that work?
Think about memory allocation and how that
might work and then you can Google it and
things like that,
then you can really learn okay,
what are the costs of this operation?
And that will help you have
a strong foundation of the time
complexity of just common
operations that you use day-to-day.
And then when you start to combine them
into solve problems that you wouldn't
normally solve at least you
are comfortable with that to begin with,
that would be my advice.